9/19/25, 3:25 PM

Introducing Ready Set Ford

Login or Sign-up

https://www.fromtheroad.ford.com/us/en/articles/2025/introducing-ready-set-ford

Menu

1/5

9/19/25, 3:25 PM

Introducing Ready Set Ford

Lisa Materazzo 09.10.25

Introducing: Ready Set Ford
It's no secret that our industry is in the middle of a historic transformation. Dynamic competition, new
technologies, and ever-shifting consumer preferences are just a few of the challenges we’re facing.
Not every brand is going to survive the next decade and meet the evolved needs of today’s
customers.
For 122 years, Ford has always shown up for our customers and communities with a unique blend of
grit, optimism, and resilience, consistently keeping an eye on the future. It's a history defined by our
commitment to serving others, improving and empowering lives.
Today, we’re doubling down on that with Ready Set Ford™, our first new global campaign in over 15
years.
READY SET FORD | Ford

Ready Set Ford is more than a tagline. It’s a catalyst designed to help our customers reach their full
potential and feel ready for anything. It’s our public commitment to you that our capability, our
passion, and our innovation will match your own. And it's a signal of a new chapter for Ford, one filled
with energy and excitement.
While the auto industry is increasingly defined by sameness and making cars that just get us from
point A to B, Ford is re-committing to passion vehicles that bring out the best in human capability.
Capability is what unites everything we build – from race cars to Bronco® SUVs to Raptor® vehicles
and Fleet Management Software.
We've been listening intently to our customers — to their needs and challenges. This has led us to
make three big, strategic decisions to modernize and re-energize the Ford brand for a new era, and
we’re doing this by embracing our authentic strengths.

https://www.fromtheroad.ford.com/us/en/articles/2025/introducing-ready-set-ford

2/5

9/19/25, 3:25 PM

Introducing Ready Set Ford

First, we are aligning our entire company around fundamental promises we make to every customer:
Capability, Passion, Community, and Trust.
We lead with Capability, giving our customers the tools they need to get the job done and be
ready for anything through our vehicles and technology.
Our vehicles allow our customers to pursue their Passions, whether that's a Bronco taking you on
an off-road adventure or cruising down a canyon in your Mustang®. We are also deepening our
investments in motorsports — both on track and off-road.
We’re deeply rooted in Community — showing up in the good times and bad. Our employees,
dealers, and customers come together to drive philanthropic efforts and community programs
worldwide, including through Ford Philanthropy and our newest initiative alongside our dealers,
Ford Building Together.
And we earn Trust as a family company guided by integrity and transparency. In 2008, we were
the only OEM not to take the bailout; that was a clear demonstration of the lengths we will go to
protect our people and our brand.

https://www.fromtheroad.ford.com/us/en/articles/2025/introducing-ready-set-ford

3/5

9/19/25, 3:25 PM

Introducing Ready Set Ford

Second, we're making a fundamental shift from leading with our nameplates to leading with the
customer lifestyles we serve. We've identified distinct lifestyles that Ford can credibly and uniquely
support, and going forward, they will inform decisions throughout the company from product design
to retail experience.
Lastly, we are committing to showcasing our most exciting and distinctive products, services, and
experiences to rebuild aspiration and excitement for Ford. Too often, we’ve let our volume offerings
define the brand and kept our most capable and passionate products for enthusiasts “in the know.”
Going forward, we’ll lean into our best, including incorporating our leadership in motorsports and
Ford Pro in our advertising, highlighting how our most passionate and capable products serve our
customers.

We’re bringing these shifts to life with the new platform Ready Set Ford, the first external marketing
expression of a transformation that has been years in the making. We are incredibly excited about
this new direction, and we are confident that it will deepen our connection with customers for
generations to come.
We believe people are more capable than they think — they just need a spark. Ford is here to be that
spark!

Lisa Materazzo is global chief marketing officer, Ford Motor Company.

Download Photos

https://www.fromtheroad.ford.com/us/en/articles/2025/introducing-ready-set-ford

4/5

9/19/25, 3:25 PM

Introducing Ready Set Ford

Inside the New Ford Universal EV
Production System

Meeting our Bronco Customers Where
They Are: On the Trail

A New Agenda to Power America’s
Essential Economy

Jim Farley 08.25.25

Ford HQ 08.25.25

Lars Weborg 09.04.25

Expanding the Base of the Ford
Motorsports Pyramid
Chris Ward 06.27.25

Ford From the Road

Vehicles

People

Technology

Volunteer Opportunities

Motorsports

Company News

Ford Pro

Terms & Conditions

Community

Accessibility

Sustainability

Contact Us

Explore The Rest of Ford
Ford.com
Careers
Corporate
Investor
Ford Credit
Ford Racing
© 2025 The Ford Motor Company | This site may contain links to external websites not affiliated
with Ford Motor Company | Images, video and audio from this web site are provided without login
for the purpose of editorial use only. You must contact fromtheroad@ford.com to obtain approval
for advertising, marketing or other commercial uses.
Privacy Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Interest Based Ads
Cookie Settings

https://www.fromtheroad.ford.com/us/en/articles/2025/introducing-ready-set-ford

5/5

